---
title: "Light curtains & Controls"
excerpt: "Light curtains & Controls are an advanced method of safeguarding personnel around many hazardous machines. Safety light curtains offer freedom, flexibility and reduced operator fatigue when compared with traditional guarding methods such as mechanical barriers, sliding gates and pull-back restraints. By reducing the need, where applicable, for solid guards, safety light curtains simplify routine tasks like machine setup, maintenance and repair."
coverImage: "/assets/productimages/logos/vision-sensor.png"
category: "sensors-and-devices"
date: "2020-03-16T05:35:07.322Z"
author:
  name: Aarkay Techno Consultants Pvt Ltd
  picture: "/svgs/aarkay.png"
ogImage:
  url: "/assets/productimages/logos/vision-sensor.png"
---

Light curtains & Controls are an advanced method of safeguarding personnel around many hazardous machines. Safety light curtains offer freedom, flexibility and reduced operator fatigue when compared with traditional guarding methods such as mechanical barriers, sliding gates and pull-back restraints. By reducing the need, where applicable, for solid guards, safety light curtains simplify routine tasks like machine setup, maintenance and repair.

**Key Features**

- Light Curtains are sophisticated point of operation and perimeter guarding devices which provide compact and superior protection for operator on many types of automated and manually fed machines or other part cycle/revolution machine which presents a hazard to persons.

- Designed for high production environments, these infrared light systems when properly installed, create an effective safety barrier through which no part of an operator’s body can pass without shutting down machine operation. Our light curtain system consists of a transmitter, receiver and control enclosure with inter-connecting cables. Most of the control circuitry logic connector are housed within the control enclosure.

- Invisible, sequentially-pulsed beams of infrared light are generated by the transmitter unit, projected through focusing lenses across the guarded area and viewed by sensors in the receiving unit. If the path of one or more of the beams is blocked or obstructed, contacts in the system circuitry will instantly open and discontinue the “run” signal to the main machine control.

- When properly interfaced with the electrical control of any machine capable of stopping in cycle, operation will be precluded until removal of the obstruction or correction of the unsafe condition.

- Safety light curtains are Control Reliable i.e. they capability of the machine control system, the safeguarding, other control components and related interfacing to achieve a safe state in the event of a failure within their safety related functions.”

- Unlike photoelectric sensors, safety light curtains use self-checking circuitry to monitor the curtain for internal faults. If an internal fault is detected, the safety light curtain immediately sends a stop signal to the guarded machine. The light curtain then enters a lockout condition. Only after replacement of the failed component and an appropriate reset will the light curtain be restored to operating condition. Redundant safety outputs are another example of safety monitoring.

Aarkay offers a complete line of safety light curtains& Controls for machine safeguarding and access control in dangerous areas, with basic and advanced functions, such as integrated muting, override, blanking, cascadable, configurable models from pepperl+Fuchs.
